hey everybody its Brooke with super
tutor TV and today I'm going to tell you
how to get a perfect score on the LCD
expert for removing sut granite I did it
as an adult when I was in high school I
got in the 99th percentile on the
example what I'm going to talk to you
about today is how do you get a perfect
score ten ways that you can get a
perfect score the first thing they have
to do is that you have to practice as
much as humanly possible so I know this
is kind of a challenge right now because
the SAT just changed and so essentially
what's happened is it's going to be
harder to get a perfect score because
there's not as much practice material
still what you can do is you need to get
a hold of like every single question
humanly possible that Khan Academy and
the College Board have offered we can
work from the old SAT you can also work
from AP exams like the AP Language and
copy exam the AP literature in common
those both have multiple-choice sections
that are somewhat similar to the new SAT
and in fact in some ways they are more
similar to the new SAT then the old SAT
reading comprehension section was to the
new SAT and so I found that for skill
building those can be really great
especially when it comes to
old-fashioned passages for whatever
reason the old SAT is what I would call
it out 80 to 90 percent contemporary
passages meaning almost everything that
was on the old SAT was written after
about 1900 and now the SAT is actually
hard the new SAT is hard because there's
these old passages from like 1843 or
1722 or really old-fashioned times and
so that's kind of annoying and they're
difficult to read and you've got to
understand those passages at a base
level in order to get a lot of these
questions right so those are some areas
that you can go but you need to practice
practice practice practice practice
number two the second thing they had to
do if you're looking to get a perfect
score is that you have to be able to
learn from your mistakes what that means
is that when you make a mistake you have
to be able to look at that question and
figure out why did I get this wrong what
did I do wrong
and how could I do it right the next
time and this is super important if you
are convinced that you are right and the
test is wrong you're never going to be
able to do super well and get everything
right because your frame of thought or
the way that you think is not the way
the test is thinking so essentially what
you need to figure out is how does this
test think what's cool about the SAT in
the college board is that for the most
part at least with my experience taking
the SAT and teaching the SAT for over a
decade or so is that they are consistent
meaning that they have certain ideas and
rules and values that they adhere to
when these folks come up with these
exams and that's really good news for
you because that means if you can just
get your headspace into their headspace
you can actually replicate what they do
number three the third thing that you
need to do to do really well or get a
perfect score on the SAT is to learn a
ton of words and I know a lot of people
say oh the new SAT has no vocabulary on
it it has vocabulary on it just a heads
up it's just insidiously placed within
the text that you are reading and within
the questions that are on that text that
ask you things like vocab in context or
that ask you what is the author's
purpose in this line and that line
happens to have a really difficult
vocabulary word mmm yeah if you learn a
ton of vocabulary that's a really good
foundation to build on and there's lots
of books out there that could help you
with that you can also use flashcards
and I've got a great video on pneumatics
which are the best way to learn
vocabulary which you should totally
check out but you've just really got to
dedicate yourself to memorizing a lot
more vocabulary and that's what I always
tell students too because like I got a
really high score on the SAT when I was
in high school but like I said I only
studied for a weekend and the way that I
did it is that I really loved vocabulary
for some reason I don't know why I had a
shoe box in my closet and it was filled
with vocabulary words and every time I
came across a new vocabulary word I
would put it on an index card and then I
go into my she box and then when I was
bored on a lazy Sunday afternoon I would
go through my vocab cards for fun and
then I also read this book called 30
days or more powerful vocabulary which I
really love
and then then I read another book that
was co-authored by one of the authors of
that book that was called six weeks two
words of power and I thought that was
fun
so I was in the process even though I
wasn't studying specifically for the SAT
I was in this process of really trying
to enrich my vocabulary because I
thought it was fun number four um the
fourth thing is that you need to perfect
your grammar that means you need to
basically learn every major grammar rule
and minor grammar rule of English and
know what they are and be really awesome
at them and for this you can use a lot
of different books there's probably
books for the new SAT but I would also
recommend there's probably some older
books you can even look at books that
were written for the SAT - for that
grammar section that are old I think I
want to say is that the English grammar
II section of the SAT that is coming up
in March of 2016 is pretty similar to
the AC T so if you want to get a lot of
practice on that section you might pull
out some old AC T exams and just run the
English section over and over and over
again and that might be a way that you
can kind of perfect your skills in
addition to grammar you also need to
know style you need to know what styles
are preferable and so again you would
have load up on books that are going to
teach you about style I love The
Elements of Style by Strunk & white it's
a good one it's free on the Kindle
number five join the math team you don't
literally have to doing the math team
but I was on the math team in high
school and I got a perfect score on the
SAT the AC T the GRE and the PSAT math
sections that's for standardized tests
and what we did on the math team is we
practice really hard math problems all
the time and so if you want to get
perfect score you have to be awesome at
math the other thing that we did is we
took these exams and maybe you've heard
of them what is the american high school
math exam and the other is the amy and
those tests are given to crazy nerdy
high school students like myself or like
i once once you compete and they are
mega hard they are far more challenging
than the SAT or the a CT or any of these
standardized tests that you have to take
to get into college and so if you
practice on those by the time you get to
the SAT the SAT seems like the katie
goal my final tip with math is learn
three ways to do every math problem so
if you only know how to do any given
problem in one way you are limiting
yourself because what if on the test you
can't do it your way and you have to do
it a different way so I always try to
emphasize the
if you know multiple ways to do a
problem in math that's when you start to
get to this meta level of awesome super
math power number six you need to learn
how to read ridiculously complex
material and that falls into what I
would call two categories one is
traditional academic writing and where
you could find that that's like social
science passages and like essays that
comment on whatever random humanities
subject matter is on the test or they
have some weird multicultural moment and
I would say the old SAT is probably a
really good resource for passages of
that nature so that you understand how
those works that you understand how
conversations and academic writing work
the other kind of writing that you have
to understand is really old school
writings anything from a portion of a
Jane Austen novel to the Constitution of
the United States of America you're
going to be responsible for reading what
we would call primary sources from a
history perspective or old-school
literature and the AP exams I think are
actually a great place to turn to I
would say go look up the AP exams for
subjects like English and look at their
multiple choice questions because some
of the kinds of writing that you have to
understand for those are solar the kinds
of reading they have to understand for
the sed
number seven you have to be realistic
with the amount of time that is going to
take to perfect your stills it's not
like you can just study for a week or
two weeks for most people and get a
perfect score and I would say even if
you're only 20 points away from a
perfect score or 40 points away from a
perfect score it's not like one week
will do it the next thing that I want to
talk about is you need to build safety
nets because you're human I am human I
make mistakes right I've scored
perfectly on a bunch of tests but I
totally make mistakes but I am really
good at building little safety nets for
myself meaning that if I have a math
problem I have this habit of always
rereading the question before I put the
answer choice right and I have a habit
of double-checking myself of using my
estimation mental math abilities to
estimate what the answer is before I
actually do the problem and then
actually do the problem and then check
it against my estimation I tend to make
more careless errors on the math section
like everybody else probably than I do
in those other sections occasionally the
writing section can also be a little bit
challenging and a mistake prone so again
I have techniques in place
that helped me to double-check am I
going to make a mistake how could this
be a mistake is there anything wrong and
then the other thing that I do is I just
try to use my time to the best of my
ability so if I finish a section I've
got 10 or 15 minutes left I'm going back
to the beginning and I'm double-checking
my work
remember nine you have to learn to pace
yourself and this might be obvious you
have to be able to get through the
material not so fast that you're making
mistakes but not so slow that you don't
finish in time probably pretty obvious
but you need to really know the test so
that you know you can get through it
don't guess if you're going to get a
perfect score you have to get to the
point that when you put an answer choice
you are 99.9 percent sure that your
answer choice is right if you ever feel
like you have guests on a question you
probably are not going to get a perfect
score you have to raise your bar and
basically decide that I'm not putting an
answer until I get it right and what
that means for me personally is on the
reading section for example which I
actually think is the most challenging
section of the test it means that I
might spend five minutes on one question
and then the rest of the thing I could
have finished 15 minutes early but that
one question I sit there for five
minutes and I really work it out because
I'm not going to guess if it's hard I'm
going to take the time and I'm gonna get
it right and after I kind of got to this
point where I realized I wasn't guessing
any more than the test that's when I
went back and I retook the SAT and I got
a perfect score because I kind of knew I
had this feeling I was like you know
what I kind of get this now I I know how
to not guess so
there you have it those are some of the
ideas that I think worked into my own
ability to be able to do really well on
standardized tests so if you like this
video please give it a thumbs up check
out our other videos because those have
some more secrets and tricks and tips
and ways that you can improve as a
person who studies and as a test taker
overall you should check out our
programming your calculator video you
should check out our new monix video you
should check out our speed reading video
there's all sorts of tips and tricks
that I have on our cool YouTube channel
like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter
and check out our blog that goes along
with this video and you should check out
our website super tutor TV com we have
blogs there we have more videos there
and you can read all the things I went
over today if you want to read some more
about them you should go check that out
there's more in the comments section and
I will see everybody next time on super
tutor TV
you